Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
